---
layout: post-video
title: Standing on a Small Island Alone
tags: [Marriotts Ridge High School, Class of 2020, Facing Fears] 
author: Aileen, Marriotts Ridge HS, Class of 2020
summary: Coming to a new school, with new students and teachers, in an new country is a daunting proposition. Especially when you don't speak a word of English.
prof-img: aileen-cho-profile.jpg
bg-img: aileen-cho-bg.jpg
btn: Watch Aileen's Video
prim-featured: yes
youtube: yes
vid-id: AYb0CG8wkJg
---

In August of 2016, I landed on United States, leaving all of my old friends, my dog, my school, everything to learn English. The sky was very high and clear and I could feel the hot sunlight giving heat to the air. The weather was nice but not to me. Everything came to me with fear. 

>It was just two weeks before going to school and I was already freaking out. 

I was nervous day and night, had no appetite, and couldn’t stop thinking about bad situations that might happen. I tried to think positives thoughts but it didn’t work. I was afraid that everyone wouldn’t like me because I’m an asian who can’t speak English. After waiting 2 stressful weeks, it was the day, the first day of school. I knew it would be very difficult for me and it was. 

I spent a day staying still in each classrooms full of students I don’t know who speak my second language, English. I sweated and breathed so hard all day. I started crying when I talked with my parents eating dinner. I kind of blamed them for bringing me to America. I told them I want to go back and I miss everything in Korea. However, there was no going back. I knew that and realized that just crying like a baby will not help me. 

>I decided to stay strong which is really hard to do. 

The several first weeks of school just felt like standing on a small island alone with no supplies that will help me to survive. Later, I got used to the environment around me. Also, as time went, I met good friends and teachers who are helping me so much that I feel always thankful for them. Overcoming this situation, I got to know that there is always a way out from the problem I have and nice people who will help me find the way out so all I have to do is trying my best and staying strong.      
