---
layout: post-video
title: Design. Build. Test. Improve.
tags: [Marriotts Ridge High School, Class of 2020]  
author: Ayesha, Marriotts Ridge HS, Class of 2020
summary: The design process parallels the life challenges that Ayesha faces as she struggles with Palindromic Rheumatism.
prof-img: filler-profile.png
btn: Read Ayesha's Story
sec-featured: no
youtube: yes
vid-id: 5zoYb0ywTHw
---

<figure>
<p>Design. Build. Test. Improve.<br /> 
Design. Build. Test. Improve.<br />
Design. Build. Test. Improve.<br /> 
These four words had been drilled into my mind.<br />
Line after line, page after page, my pen furiously scribbled these words over and over again.<br />
Design. Build. Test. Improve.<br />
My arm falls limp, it won’t lift.<br /> 
I figure it was from all the notes I took.<br />
Design. Build. Test. Improve.<br />
Design. B--<br />
Slow down, I can’t write.<br />
My pen was stuck on design. </p>

<p>May 2015, it had been two weeks.<br /> 
My arms were hurting. My feet were paining. <br /> 
Right arm, left arm, right knee, left knee.<br /> 
Each week introduced a new brace on top of the old one.<br /> 
They thought I was faking it.<br /> 
They thought I wanted sympathy. <br /> 
I didn’t play sports. I didn’t run. I didn’t fall.<br /> 
Little did they know, even I had gone insane pondering why.<br />  
Design. B--<br /> 
My hand refused to write any further. <br /> 
Like my hand, my life had refused to go any further.<br /> 
It had seemed like I had become one with the design process.<br /> 
I had to find the problem and fix it. <br /> 
Design. B--</p>

<p>April 16, 2015, my best friend’s birthday party.<br />
Spiraling infinities engraved her presence as she swept through the ice.<br />
I, on the other hand, found victory in reaching my first few feet, to which the frigid ice had almost instantaneously made my face tangent with it. <br />
The discomfort in my feet that followed that night was a force to be reckoned with. </p>

<p>Perhaps that was the reason why everything hurt.<br /> 
Yes, it had all made sense.<br /> 
Design. Build.--<br /> 
Wait, that was almost two months ago.<br /> 
Surely it wouldn’t last that long.<br /> 
Surely there was more to it than just that.<br /> 
Design. B--</p>

<p>June 2015. I will never forget it. <br /> 
June 2015, when I skipped school for an entire month.<br /> 
June 2015,  when every weekend became another trip to the doctor’s office.<br /> 
Specialist after specialist, it had seemed like we were getting somewhere.<br /> 
June 2015, when after weeks of testing, a final prognosis was found.<br /> 
June 2015, when I was diagnosed with Palindromic Rheumatism, a rare form of arthritis. <br /> 
Design. Build.--<br /> 
Just like my blood cells attacked my joints to be foreign invaders, my mind had soon been besieged by anxious thoughts. <br /> 
What was next? Who do I go to?<br /> 
Design. Build.--</p>

<p>June 2016, one year from being diagnosed.<br /> 
June 2016, when I overcame the setbacks put in front of me. <br /> 
June 2016, when I realized that nothing was going to stop me from doing what I do.<br /> 
I ran slower than others. I jumped lower than others. Oh well. <br /> 
Design. Build. Test. I--</p>

<p>February 2017, the onset of arthritis as an adult is likely. <br /> 
February 2017, where it doesn’t matter anymore.<br /> 
February 2017, where I have to write my story, not a story to gain sympathy, but a story to inspire.<br /> 
Where if you fall, you get back up. <br /> 
Where all of us are constantly in the infinite cycle of the design process and it's our job to figure it out.<br /> 
Where no matter what problem is thrown at you, you keep going and cultivate that problem such that it is no longer a problem.<br /> 
Design. Build. Test. Improve. <br /> 
Design. Build. Test. Improve.<br /> 
Design. Build. Test. Improve.</p>

</figure>
